# Codebase layout

This is an explanation of how the files in the codebase are (intended to) be laid out.

- `/` contains the typical mess of configuration files and documentation.
- `/public` contains static assets for the website
- `/.github` contains the `yaml` files which define our CI/CD pipeline on GitHub Actions
- `/docs` contains documentation files (like this one!)
- `/src` contains all of the source code! Let's dig into it:
  - `/src/api` contains _client_ API code for querying the Toronto city council API. Needs a better name.
  - `/src/app` contains the [Next `app` router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app), i.e. all the pages of the website.
  - `src/backend` contains code that is specifically meant to run on a server. so, logic for SSR pages, Route Handlers, or Server Actions
  - `src/components` contains all of our UI components. we try to keep pages themselves lean, mainly just to connect some data to a component. So you might find e.g. the `AgendaItemList` component which is basically an entire page of the app defined here.
    - `src/components/ui` is specifically for components that are just concerned with UI/UX (styling/interaction) and not the underlying data model. e.g., a button. or a navigation bar. components generated by `shadcn/ui` ends up in this folder (in fact I think that is the source of all of the code in that folder)
  - `src/constants`: what it says on the tin.
  - `src/contexts` contains our React contexts.
  - `src/database`: what it says on the tin.
  - `src/hooks` contains our custom React hooks.
  - `src/logic` contains business logic: code that is neither concerned with the client, the server, nor the database! just wranglin' some data models
  - `src/migrations` contains our database migrations
  - `src/scripts` contains code that is meant to be run in cron jobs or by developers. Currently this is code to update the database.
